DOCS-11171 field level capabilities sg (#125)
mulesoft/docs-mule-sdk: modules/ROOT/pages/field-level-capabilities.adoc

> = Field Level Capabilities

Reviewer: Because "field-level" is a compound adjective modifying "capabilities," it is proper to hyphenate it.
Following this structure is sometimes relaxed if there is no possibility that your audience will mentally join the second adjective, along, with the noun (like "field level-capabilities"). 
I lean toward OG: field-level <whatever>.

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> There are several features for Java SDK that support field level capabilities

Reviewer: GLOBALLY avoid beginning sentences with "There are" (or "There is"), which is a false sentence subject. It is better to supply a real subject by switching the wording around...:
```suggestion
Java SDK includes several features that support field-level capabilities
```

for value providers and sample data. Using these features enables you to define

> value providers for fields of parameters or use fields of parameters as acting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
value providers for parameter fields, or to use parameter fields as acting
```

parameters for either a value provider or sample data.

> 

Reviewer: I wonder if we should include here some narrative that explicitly mentions each of the subtopics included in this topic set, to prepare the audience for what is to come and help them to decide if this is the topic set that they need to read?

> These features are available for Mule 4.4.0, however, connectors can use

Reviewer: Are the features "supported by" or "compatible with" Mule 4.4.0, or are they available in/as part of Mule 4.4.0?
Clarify the relationship.

Reviewer: "however, all Anypoint Connectors can use these features, regardless of their Mule version."?

> These features are available for Mule Runtime 4.4.0, however connectors can use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These features are available for Mule 4.4.0, however, connectors can use
```

> them without upgrading their Minimum Mule Version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the features without upgrading their minimum Mule version.
```

> == Defining a Value Provider for a Part of a Parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Defining a Value Provider for One Part of a Parameter
```

> You can declare a value provider for a parameter field by using the

Reviewer: Why use "define" in the title but "declare" here?

GLOBALLY avoid switching up word use: pick the most precise and use it only, consistently in a deliverable.
If you intend distinctions that are subtle, clarify them overtly in the narrative.

Reviewer: Try to avoid using modal verbs, per style ref:
"You can declare" > "Declare"? "You declare"?

> You can declare a value provider for a field of a parameter by using the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can declare a value provider for a parameter field by using the
```

> annotation *@FieldValues*.

Reviewer: What do we mean by "annotation"?
If this is syntax, it should be within ` ` marks, not * * marks.
GLOBAL below; I will not mark each instance pending your intent in using * *?

The *@FieldValues* annotation requires:

* *value*
+
Provides values for a field.
* *targetSelectors*
+

> Describes which part of a parameter holds values given by the value provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Describes which part of a parameter contains the values that are given by the value provider.
```

> Describes which part of a parameter contains the values that are given by the value provider.

Reviewer: I know it is repetitive, but maybe simpler/clearer?
```suggestion
Describes which part of a parameter contains the values provided by the value provider.
```
Or maybe "supplied"?

> It is defined through the DataWeave syntax to describe the selector through

Reviewer: To what does "it" refer? that parameter part? that parameter? that value? that syntax?

Reviewer: Any way to avoid passive voice: <it> is defined...?

nested fields, XML attributes, or fields that contain spaces in their names.

> The following is an example of an operation that includes values provided for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows an operation that includes values provided for
```

a parameter named *body*, which is a JSON input stream:

----
public class ChatOperations {
 public void sendChatMessage(@Connection ChatConnection chatConnection,
       @FieldValues(value = WorkspacesValueProvider.class, targetSelectors = "routingInfo.workspace")
       @TypeResolver(ChatMessageResolver.class) @Content InputStream body) {
    // Do message sending
  }
}
----

> The *body* parameter has a field named *routingInfo* which has a field named

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *body* parameter has a field named *routingInfo*, which has a field named
```

`workspace`. *WorkspacesValueProvider* is a value provider that uses the

> connection and retrieves possible workspaces.

Reviewer: Be sure that here, and throughout, that we are using ` ` to identify user or machine-supplied custom syntax, and * * to identify UI labels. I can't always tell by the narrative alone, so I rely on you double-checking these.

== Defining a Value Provider for Several Parts of a Parameter

Parameters can have more than one part where values are provided.
The *@FieldValues* annotation is a repeatable annotation, so parameters can be

> annotated multiple times.

Reviewer: How is the audience involved? 
We begin the peer topics by giving advice about what "you" do to accomplish each particular definition, and why; try to follow parallel patterns in structuring the information.

Reviewer: Here's my lame attempt...:
```suggestion
Because parameters sometimes require you to provide a value in more than one location, use *@FieldValues* to annotate parameters multiple times.
```

Author: Super helpful, thanks for this tip!

> The following is an example of an operation with a parameter named

Reviewer: More active
```suggestion
The following example shows an operation with a parameter named
```

`body`, which is a JSON input stream that has two parts with values that

> can be provided:

Reviewer: passive: that <who?> provides?

----
public class ChatOperations {
 public void sendChatMessage(@Connection ChatConnection chatConnection,
       @FieldValues(value = WorkspacesValueProvider.class, targetSelectors = "routingInfo.workspace")
       @FieldValues(value = ChannelIdValueProvider.class, targetSelectors = "channelId")
       @TypeResolver(ChatMessageResolver.class) @Content InputStream body) {
    // Do message sending
  }
}
----

> The parameter *body* defines values for two fields, *routingInfo.workspace* and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The parameter *body* defines values for two fields (*routingInfo.workspace* and
```

> *channelId*, that have values that are independent from each other.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*channelId*) that have values that are independent of each other.
```

== Defining a Multilevel Value Provider for Several Parts of a Parameter

> You can use multilevel value providers for several parts of a parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use *targetSelectors* to enable multilevel value providers for several parts of a parameter. For example, imagine that 
```

> 
> Suppose in the previous example you want the values for the *channelId* field
> to depend on the values for the *routingInfo.workspace* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you want the values for the *channelId* field
to depend on the values for the *routingInfo.workspace* field.
```

To define this, the *targetSelectors* attribute from the *@FieldValues* annotation
must receive an array of strings. If more than one string is given, a multilevel

> value provider is defined. Each given field defines the value parts of the

Reviewer: Reword to active rather than passive voice, if possible, following the examples in previous comments.

 public void sendChatMessage(@Connection ChatConnection chatConnection,
      @FieldValues(value = ChatMultiLevelValueProvider.class,  targetSelectors = {"workspace", "channelId"})
      @TypeResolver(ChatMessageResolver.class) @Content InputStream body) {}
}
----

The multilevel value provider is included like any other value provider.

The following is an example of what a multilevel value provider looks like:

----
public class ChatMultiLevelValueProvider implements ValueProvider {

 @Connection
 private ChatConnection chatConnection;

 @Override
 public Set<Value> resolve() {
   Set<Value> values = new HashSet<>();
   List<String> workspaces = chatConnection.getWorkspaces();
   workspaces.stream().forEach(workspace -> {
     ValueBuilder valueBuilder = newValue(workspace);
     chatConnection.getChannels(workspace).stream().forEach(channel -> valueBuilder.withChild(newValue(channel)));
     values.add(valueBuilder.build());
   });
   return values;
 }

 @Override
 public String getId() {
   return "Chat multilevel value provider";
 }
}
----

== Defining a Value Provider for XML Attributes

Target selectors use the DataWeave syntax. If a parameter of an operation is an

> XML, you can use this syntax to define a value provider for an attribute that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
XML element, you can use this syntax to define a value provider for an attribute that
```

> XML element, you can use this syntax to define a value provider for an attribute that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
XML element, use this syntax to define a value provider for an attribute that
```

is a part of that parameter.

The following example shows how the DataWeave syntax defines a value provider
for an attribute:

----
public class ChatOperations {
 public void sendChatMessage(@Connection ChatConnection chatConnection,
      @FieldValues(value = ChannelIdValueProvider.class,  targetSelectors = "message.target.@channelId")
      @TypeResolver(XmlChatMessageResolver.class) @Content InputStream body) {}
}
----

> In this example, the *body* parameter is an XML that has a root tag named

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the *body* parameter is an XML element that has a root tag named
```

*message*, which has a *target* that has the *channelId* attribute and an
associated value provider.

== Define Acting Parameters as Parts of Parameters

To define acting parameters as parts of parameters, components must define
bindings for their references for value providers and sample data providers.
These bindings enable an acting parameter of the provider to take the value of
the evaluated DataWeave expression.

When no binding is defined for an acting parameter, the same implicit binding

> will be applied. The name of the acting parameter must be the same as the name

Reviewer: Present tense
```suggestion
is applied. The name of the acting parameter must be the same as the name
```

of the parameter in the component to take that parameter’s value.

Use the *@Binding* annotation to define an acting parameter. The *@FieldValues*
annotation and the `@SampleData` annotation can be given an array of bindings

> to define the values the acting parameter must take.

Reviewer: Reword to avoid passive tense, modal verbs.

> When a binding is defined, it declares the value an acting parameter will
> take by giving an extraction expression. This extraction expression is a

Reviewer: passive, future tense
```suggestion
A defined binding declares the value that an acting parameter 
takes by providing an extraction expression. This extraction expression is a
```

DataWeave expression that uses only selectors to retrieve the value for the
acting parameter.

The available context for the expression has the value of all the component's
parameters. The expression must start with the name of the parameter of the
component. If the value comes from a part of the parameter, the expression
follows the selector to the desired field.

> The following is an example where a parameter named *body* has a field with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is an example where a parameter named `body` has a field with
```

> The following is an example where a parameter named `body` has a field with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows a parameter named `body` that has a field with
```

> values that depend on the acting parameter *workspace*:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
values that depend on the acting parameter `workspace`:
```

Reviewer 2: Since we are referring to code, not UI, use monospace. I may have missed some instances of this.

----
public class ChatOperations {
 public void sendChatMessage(@Connection ChatConnection chatConnection,
       @FieldValues(value = ChannelsValueProvider.class, targetSelectors = "channelId",
     bindings = {@Binding(actingParameter = "workspace",  extractionExpression = "body.routingInfo.workspace")}))
       @TypeResolver(ChatMessageResolver.class) @Content InputStream body) {
    // Do message sending
  }
}
----

> This acting parameter is taken from the same *body* parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This acting parameter is taken from the same `body` parameter.
```

> The following shows the value provider used in this example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following syntax shows the value provider used in this example:
```

----
public class ChannelsValueProvider implements ValueProvider {

 @Connection
 private ChatConnection chatConnection;

 @Parameter
 private String workspace;

 @Override
 public Set<Value> resolve() {
   return ValueBuilder.getValuesFor(chatConnection.getChannels(workspace));
 }

 @Override
 public String getId() {
   return "Channels value provider";
 }
}
----

> The *workspace* acting parameter defined in the value provider is bound to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `workspace` acting parameter defined in the value provider is bound to the
```

Reviewer 2: To avoid leaving too many comments, I'll just let you find and fix all of these and I'll stop commenting.

extraction expression that takes the value of the field from the context
of the component.

> == Sample Data Example

Reviewer: "sample example" sounds redundant. And how is this example different from the one(s) use in previous subtopics? Which subtopic(s) are exemplified here?

> The following is an example of *@SampleData* annotation binding an acting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is an example of a `@SampleData` annotation that binds an acting
```

> The following is an example of a `@SampleData` annotation that binds an acting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example illustrates a `@SampleData` annotation that binds an acting
```

parameter to the value of a field of a parameter in the component:

----
public class ChatOperations {
@SampleData(value = ChatMessageSampleDatatProvider.class, bindings = {@Binding(actingParameter = "workspace",  extractionExpression = "body.routingInfo.workspace")}))
 public Result<InputStream, ChatAttributes> retrieveChatMessage(@Connection ChatConnection chatConnection,
         @TypeResolver(ChatMessageResolver.class) @Content InputStream body) {
    // Do chat message retrieval
  }
}
----

> In the *ChatMessageSampleDatatProvider*, there is a parameter named `workspace`

Reviewer: Avoid "there is" subject; make active:
```suggestion
*ChatMessageSampleDatatProvider* contains a parameter named `workspace`
```

that provides the sample data. The value of this acting parameter
is taken from the extraction expression defined in the binding.

> 

Reviewer: How do the next three topics relate to all the previous? Seems like maybe the types of subtopics should be further grouped.

Reviewer: Do they all relate to "acting parameters"; do we need a subtopic further defining acting parameters near the topic set intro?

== Extraction Expression Restrictions

The extraction expression used for the extraction of the value of the acting
parameter does not aggregate any data from the context. It must be limited to
access only the value of a field in the parameter.

The first part of this extraction expression must also correspond to the

> name of a parameter from the component.

Reviewer: Where is the user action/how is the audience involved, and to what scenario(s) above does this relate?

== Java Type Limitation

When executing the extraction expression to give values to the acting
parameters of a value provider or sample data provider, the output media type

> will always be `application/java`. This means that the provider must not expect

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is always `application/java`. This means that the provider must not expect
```

> other media types, such as `application/json` or `application/xml`.

Reviewer: Should this be grouped with the previous subtopic and, again, where is the user action/to what scenario does this apply?

Reviewer: Should this appear up with the introduction to acting parameters?

> == Parameters Static Metadata

Reviewer: This seems like a topic that should appear much earlier in the set? Up around Line 144?
